Hi, welcome.
My name is Kevin Armstrong,
and today we're going to be
talking about authorization
and looking at how that's done,
looking at a new API we're adding to make
things a little easier for developers.
And so let's get started.
So what we're going to learn,
we're going to-- well,
the first thing is authorization.
What is it?
How is it used?
Why do you want to use it?
What is an authorization plugin?
We'll look at how those are written
and how they run in the system.
And then we'll introduce the
SF authorization plugin view,
which is new for Leopard,
and go about--look at how one
of those is written as well.
So let's get started.
What is authorization?
Well, authorization is a process where,
by the user is unidentified,
their credentials are gathered.
Those credentials are
authenticated to make sure the
user is who they say they are.
Permissions are checked to make sure they
have the right to perform the operation.
And if all that works out,
then the right is granted.
What is this used for?
Well, this is used to confirm that
the user has given permission
to the app to do something and
has the permission to do that.
And then it was performed a specific task
such as adding a new user to the system,
unlocking the screen after
waking up from sleep,
installing software, burning a CD,
logging into the system,
and stuff like that.
So why should you use authorization?
Well, it allows a system
administrator to control policy.
So if they wanted to change
the fact-- burning the CD so
that only admins could do it,
or that nobody could do it,
that's possible, things like that.
It also allows the system to use
different authentication mechanisms,
such as biometric scanners and
card readers and things like that.
So how is authorization done in Mac OS X?
Well, an application uses the
security framework to ask for
the right to perform a task.
Now they do that by calling a few APIs.
First is Authorization Create.
This is how you create
an authorization ref.
And it takes three other parameters.
And Apple recommends that you
just set those to some defaults
so that things are easy to-- so
you don't have problems later on.
There's a technical Q&A article
about this that you can read.
But anyway,
so right now with Authorization Create,
we're going to pass in null,
an empty environment, and default flags,
and we'll get back the authorization ref.
[Transcript missing]
So once you've called
authorization copyrights,
the result will come back.
And you'll just check the status,
and if it's authorization success,
then the user has authorized properly,
provided their credentials,
and you're now able to perform the task.
So if you need to get information
from the authorization ref,
say the user's ID or name,
you can retrieve that in some cases
with the authorization copy info.
Again, it takes your authorization ref.
It takes a tag, which is the name of the
information you want to get back.
Or you can pass in null to get
all the information available.
And then you'll get back the
information in the info parameter.
Then once you've gotten that information,
you can use it how you need to.
So we've been talking about rights.
So what is a right?
Well, a right is a name privilege
that an application requests
on behalf of the user.
And they're specified
in the policy database.
Each write has a name and a
dictionary which specifies how
the write is to be evaluated.
So here's an example of a simple write.
This is the system burn write.
It has a class and a comment.
The class is set to allow,
which means always allow this write.
And the comment, of course,
is a simple little
description of what it does,
authorization to burn media.
So this is how you control, you know,
this is what the system checks to see
if it's allowed to burn some media.
Now if you set this to deny,
you could prevent anybody from burning,
and you can also change it so
that only admins or users of a
certain group could burn media.
Here's a little more complex write.
This is the one used to
install to an admin domain,
you know, such as /applications.
And here the user, the class is user,
and it's a group is admin,
so they have to be in the
admin group to do this.
The shared key controls whether this
is shared amongst applications or,
and then the timeout
is set to 300 seconds.
So after five minutes,
this one will time out,
and it's not shared amongst other apps.
So this isn't even more complicated,
right?
This is the right that's checked
when somebody logs into the system.
System login console.
And the class here is
evaluate mechanisms.
And this means that the system will go
through each of the mechanisms specified,
make sure that the user
is allowed by each one,
and when it's done,
only then are they allowed to log in.
So here you can see
the list of mechanisms.
Now if you need to add
a write to the system,
you can use the authorization db.h.
Now we really suggest you do use this.
It has the three functions here.
Authorization write get,
pass in the name,
and you'll get back the definition.
Authorization write set,
and you pass in a definition.
You have the ability to set some
of the prompts that'll be shown in
the standard authorization dialog.
It'll provide even
localizations for those prompts.
And then authorization write remove
if you're cleaning up the system and
need to get rid of it or change it.
Now the benefits of using this
API are that it makes modification
easier and more convenient.
It's also safer since you're not
parsing the database yourself
and making changes directly.
It uses the authorization system
so that it can ask for the proper
permissions when necessary,
so you don't have to write a
privilege tool for your installer.
And when you create a right definition,
it doesn't require admin privileges,
but you do have to have a unique name.
And one of the caveats here is
that there is wildcard characters,
so for instance, com.apple.
That dot at the end is the wildcard,
which means you can't add com.apple.blah.
If you want to look at the policy
database on your computer right now,
it's in the Etsy authorization file.
And this is just an XML file
that contains the information
about authorization.
Again,
don't try to modify this file directly.
So we've been talking about mechanisms,
and I showed you the mechanism list.
So what are they?
Well, a mechanism is a path of execution
through an authorization plugin.
And each one in this list
is specified by a plugin ID,
a colon, a mechanism ID,
and optionally comma privileged.
And the comma privilege
specifies where it will run.
GUI app, or GUI plugins and such,
and if they don't need privileged rights,
they should run in security agent,
and you don't add the privileged.
If they're going to need to
run as root for some reason,
then they'll run an authorization host.
Now as mechanisms run,
each one runs alone and then the
control is passed on to the next.
And that happens when
the set result is done.
And when the mechanism
sets a result of allow,
control is passed on
to the next mechanism.
And so on and so forth until
you get to the last one.
During the execution of these mechanisms,
there's two sets of information.
There's context values and hint values.
And that information also flows
from the first to the last.
So once control is
passed to mechanism two,
mechanism one can no longer
set values or get values.
So context values are authoritative
bits of data during the execution cycle.
They're read and written by mechanisms,
and they're used to transfer
data from one to the next.
And they have access
controls on them so that the
authorization copy info function,
they will or will not
be available to that.
Hint values are very similar.
They are used to pass information,
but there will be a way for applications
to pass information into a mechanism,
and that's done through the
authorization environment.
Two of the ones that are used
commonly are the environment
prompt and the environment icon,
just to provide some customization
of the standard authorization dialog.
So what's going on behind the
scenes with an authorization?
Well, when my application calls
authorization copyrights,
request is sent to the security server.
And that is done by SecurityD,
that is the security server now.
So system preferences is
passed to the security server.
The security server then queries the
policy database and gets the right,
so it knows how to
process and handle that.
Security server then launches
security agent and authorization
host in order to work with those
applications to process the right.
Security agent gets the
non-privileged mechanisms,
and authorization host
gets the privileged ones.
So when security agent is run,
it'll put up the standard
authorization dialogue,
get the user's identity and credentials,
and then it will write
the context values,
the identity credentials to the context.
It'll then call setResult,
and that information will get passed
over to the authorization host,
and it will authenticate the credentials,
and when it's done,
it will call setResult,
and then control will return
to the security server.
The security server will then return
the result to the application,
and the application can then check
the status and perform the task.
So we've been talking about
authorization plugins,
so let's look at how
to write one of those.
So what you do is you create
an authorization plugin
using Coco's bundle template.
And the first thing you'll need
is the entry point function.
The authorization plugin
create takes three parameters.
There are authorization callbacks,
which you'll need to save for later.
This is a structure with a list of
function pointers that you use to talk
to authorization hosts or security agent.
The authorization plugin ref,
which is just the value that
you've chosen-- it's usually a
pointer to an object or structure.
And then Authorization Plugin Interface
is a list of functions that are in your
plugin that you will return so that
Authorization Host and Security Agent can
communicate with your plugin.
So let's look at that
structure real quick.
The first item in it is a version.
This tells the Authorization
Host and Security Agent which
version you're running,
which version of the
structure you support,
so it knows which functions you have.
And then there's a list
of functions after that,
and let's look at those.
So Plugin Destroy,
this one's kind of self-explanatory.
This tells your plugin
that it's being destroyed,
and then it gives you a chance
to clean up and release memory,
stop talking to hardware, or whatever.
Mechanism Create,
this is where your ID comes in
so you'll know which mechanism
is about to be executed.
You'll also get an
Authorization Engine Ref,
which is something you need to save
because you'll pass that back to
Authorization Host or Security Agent.
And you'll return a Mechanism Ref,
which is like the plugin ref.
It's just the value of your choosing.
And you'll return a Mechanism Ref,
which is like the plugin ref.
It's just the value of your choosing.
The mechanism invoke,
when this is called,
it tells the mechanism to run.
And when you're finished,
you'll call setResult.
Now, if you're showing UI or something,
you may want your UI to
run on the run loop,
which is fine.
You can call setResult any time.
One note is that when--
Once you call setResult,
you'll no longer be able to read or
write context values or hint values.
And you can't do those either before
your mechanism invoke is called.
Mechanism deactivate.
As soon as you get this,
as soon as possible,
call did deactivate just to
let the host know that you've
You've received it.
Mechanism Destroy, again,
self-explanatory.
It's just the means by-- just tells your
mechanism that it's about to go away
and that it should clean up anything.
So let's look at the authorization
callback structure that came in
with Authorization Plugin Create.
Again, you should keep, you know,
be sure to keep a pointer to this.
And this has the
functions like setResult,
setContextValue,
and so forth that we've been talking
about along with some others.
So setResult, this is, you know,
you use this to allow or deny
continuation of the authorization.
Once it's called, you can't, you know,
set context values,
so be sure to set those beforehand.
context value accessors.
These are get context value
and set context value.
And there's, like I said before,
there's access control flags on
the context values to allow them
to be available to the application
through authorization copy info.
Two of them are authorization
context flag extractable
and context flag volatile.
Now the hint values, you know,
get hint value, set hint value again.
Notice they don't have the context flags,
so they can't read anything.
So once you've created
your authorization plugin,
you'll want to install it.
Now they go into System Library,
Core Services, Security Agent Plugins.
And then you may want to
add a right or change other
rights in the policy database.
So you can see here an example of
adding an authorization-- or name and
password invoke to a mechanism list,
or name and password invoke and an
authorization to it to make sure that
the credentials came in correctly.
So now let's talk about the
SF authorization plugin view.
Why are we doing this?
Well, the first reason is we wanted
to eliminate the need for
developers to reproduce Apple's
authorization dialogues.
There's a lot of-- in the
past when this has been done,
they've had interesting UI bits.
And because of that,
we want to create a unified user
experience for our customers.
And it also allows us to change
our UI and let people continue
to see a consistent interface.
And we can also add functionality and
keep the SPIs that we use private.
So here's an example
of what this will do.
This is the login window.
And you may notice that the password
looks a little different than before.
And that's because this portion
of it was replaced by the name and
password example that I've written
that's going to be available.
And the same thing with the
standard authorization dialogue.
This section here has been replaced.
Now as a developer,
if you want to provide UI for
a fingerprint scanner or
card reader of some sort,
you can simply provide an
SF authorization plugin
and replace these portions.
And this is what we wanted to do.
So let's look at how
to write one of these.
Well,
the first thing you do is you add a--
you add a class to your authorization
plugin and make it a subclass of
the SF authorization plugin view.
And we provide a couple of views.
We have an identity and credentials
view and just a credentials view.
That goes back to which one of
the dialogues was asking for it.
There's two methods you have to override,
button pressed and view for type.
So let's look at button
pressed real quick.
Button pressed,
you'll be told which button was pressed,
like either the OK.
Cancel or login.
And when you get that,
you'll need to set the user's identity
and password and then call set result.
Well, in this case, password.
In the case of a fingerprint renderer,
you might need to write the
credentials for the fingerprint
or how that came in or whatever.
If it was cancel,
then you just say the user canceled.
View for type is where you
return the appropriate view
based on which was requested.
So if you're asking for
the identity credentials,
you'd return the appropriate
view and so forth.
The next thing to do in your plugin
is to instantiate the subclass.
So you have my subclass
Alec in it with callbacks.
And here you can use the callbacks
and the engine ref that you
got from authorization plugin
create and mechanism create.
And you can use the callbacks
and the engine ref that you got
And then the hard part.
This is where you have to display the
authorization dialog so that things
show up on the screen and the user can
use the views that you've provided.
And it's just simply
my object display view.
We've tried to make it very simple,
yet very powerful.
So, just as a recap on this,
what do you need to do?
Well, you create an authorization plugin.
You create an SF authorization
plugin view subclass,
you instantiate the subclass,
and you call display view.
And that will cause the appropriate
dialog to come up on screen and
your view will be added to it and
you can use it however you want.
So let's fill out the
rest of the subclass.
In Cocoa,
there's this concept of a keyboard loop,
which is when you're using the Tab key,
you'll move through the
controls of the dialog.
Most everybody's probably
familiar with that.
And so we have a few methods
here to help that along.
FirstKeyView and LastKeyView,
those will be used to set up the loop,
and in some cases,
the dialogs will do this
automatically so that your methods
may not actually be called.
FirstResponderView, however,
will get called.
And this is used to determine
which one of the controls you
want to have active right away.
So keyboard loop example.
As I said, in the case of this UI,
the name is the FirstKeyView and
the password is the LastKeyView.
You just simply return those.
In the case of the
FirstResponder example,
this gets a little more interesting.
So if you have no name available,
you'd want the user to be able
to enter their name immediately.
So you would set the first
responder view to the name.
If you have a name,
Then you'll set it to the password view,
and so you can see that in
the little example code there.
There are times when it's appropriate
for your controls to be active,
and the authorization dialogs will call
setEnabled to tell your controls when to
be enabled and when not to be enabled.
So you can see here,
all it is is a simple "tell the text
field in the password text field to
setEnabled with the appropriate flag."
Now, there are other times when
you'll need to configure your UI.
Say you might have a countdown
timer or some other...
There's a lot of things going on,
you know,
animation or something in your view.
And what you'll do is,
these three are used for that.
WillActivateWithUser will be
passed in to tell you that your
view is about to be activated.
If the end user information is not nil,
it'll probably contain the user's name
so that you can add it to your UI.
Once the view is ready to be used,
you'll get a DidActivate.
And when it's no longer in use,
you'll get a DidDeactivate.
Now if you need to have
multiple stages or change the
view for a particular reason,
you can call Update View.
This will allow you
to provide a new view.
The dialogs will call
View for Type again,
and you'll get the chance to
provide a new view to the dialog,
and a new one will show up.
And then if you need to disable
the OK or Cancel buttons,
you can use
Set Button Enabled to do that.
So let's go for a quick demo.
So here we have the name
and password plugin.
Look at the--
class interface real quick.
So you can see I have
a number of views here.
This is the Identity
and Credentials view.
We have a Password view
and some other variables.
The amount of code involved
is really not a whole lot,
but this does some pretty powerful stuff.
So here's the button pressed.
You can see that if I'm using the
Identity and Credentials view,
use the user name string from that.
Otherwise,
we'll use the one that was passed in.
We'll write out the context values.
In the appropriate cases,
the first key view.
This is also available as example code,
so you won't have to try to
copy it all down right now.
First responder view.
Again, we'll check to see if the text
field has got any text in it,
and if not,
we'll use that as the one that is
available to the user to use first.
Otherwise, we'll use the password.
Last key view.
Set Enabled: Again,
we're just passing along to the
various controls the Set Enabled.
Here we're saving the name and
adding it to the name field if
it's been passed in with the "will
activate with user". View for
Type returns the appropriate view.
And our NIT with callbacks
doesn't have anything else to do,
but it's there.
Let's look at an example
of this real quick.
So here I have a little simple app.
Let's remove this real quick.
So I've got a bundle,
the name and password bundle,
I have a mechanism name for it.
But before I do that,
also notice the right name test right,
I'm going to add this right
to the policy database.
So right now there's no right to find.
So if I add that,
notice it didn't require authorization.
But it added one that's called,
with a class of allow and a comment
for testing authorization plugin.
So if I test that,
the authorization is successful.
Now a little bit more complex right,
we'll add that.
And now in this case,
you notice that we're being
asked to modify the right,
so I have to authorize that.
So now we have a class of user comment,
the same comment,
and now it requires group admin.
So if I test that,
and I change this to test user 001.
So now it knows that it's not,
that test user is not an admin
and I need to pay an admin.
So let's try that again with...
There, so authorization was
successful at that point.
So now if I do an even
more complicated write,
This one I have a mechanism list.
And we have the name and password bundle.
Get rid of that.
Well, that's right.
We're going to use the name and
password plugin that we wrote
already and looked at the code for.
And we're going to use the
invoke mechanism for that.
And then we're going to
authenticate what we get.
So test that.
And so here you can see the new view
that's been added to the dialog.
And again,
we have all the controls here and stuff.
Oh, it didn't work great.
There are some small issues still.
But you can see it failed.
Test that again.
There.
Authorization was successful that time.
So just a simple way to add--
A UI to the standard authorization
dialogs and the login dialogs and all
the Apple-provided dialogs and use those
instead of having to write your own,
having to replace Apple's dialogs.
And also give you a bit of an example
of how the rights work in the policy
database and why you should use them.
So, go back over here.
Back to the slides.
So if you want to get more information,
the authorization plugin reference
is available on the website.
It's probably also on your--
Documentation in your developer install.
There's authorization plug-in examples
at developer example security.
There's one there for a banner sample
that will put up a banner in front of
log in that you'll have to click through.
You can set the text on that.
There's also another one.
There's a Tech Note authorization
for everyone that's useful.
And then be careful when
using authorization create.
The technical Q&A article tells you why.
To use the default values.
And then the name and password
example plug-in is available in the
example code for this year's WWDC.